grid-packages/ag-grid-docs/documentation/doc-pages/component-status-bar/index.md, before:

---
title: "Status Bar Panels (Components)"
enterprise: true
---

Status Bar Panels allow you to add your own components to the grid's Status Bar. Use this when the provided status bar components do not meet your requirements.

## Simple Status Bar Component

md-include:simple-status-bar-javascript.md
md-include:simple-status-bar-angular.md
md-include:simple-status-bar-react.md
md-include:simple-status-bar-vue.md

<grid-example title='Status Bar Panel' name='simple-component' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "statusbar", "range"] }'></grid-example>

md-include:component-interface-javascript.md
md-include:component-interface-angular.md
md-include:component-interface-react.md
md-include:component-interface-vue.md

## Status Panel Parameters

<interface-documentation interfaceName='IStatusPanelParams' ></interface-documentation>

## Configuring Status Bar Panels

In order to add new components to the Status Bar (or to configure the provided `agAggregationComponent` component) you need to provide the components and any associated information to `statusBar`:

md-include:configure-javascript.md
md-include:configure-angular.md
md-include:configure-react.md
md-include:configure-vue.md
  
In the configuration above we've specified a custom component (`statusBarComponent`) as well as the provided `agAggregationComponent` component.

Order is important here - the order of the components provided will determine the order in which they're rendered, from left to right.

<grid-example title='Status Bar Panel' name='custom-component' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "statusbar", "range"] }'></grid-example>

## Initialisation of Status Bar Components

Please refer to the documentation [here.](/status-bar/#initialisation-of-status-bar-components)

## Accessing Status Bar Panel Instances

After the grid has created an instance of a status bar component it is possible to access that instance. This is useful if you want to call a method that you provide on the status bar component that has nothing to do with the operation of the grid. Accessing a status bar component is done using the grid API `getStatusPanel(key)`.

<api-documentation source='grid-api/api.json' section='accessories' names='["getStatusPanel"]'></api-documentation>

The example below shows using `getStatusPanel`:

<grid-example title='Get Status Bar Panel Instance' name='component-instance' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "statusbar", "range"] }'></grid-example>

Commit message:

RTI-1176 Add framework specific examples on component page

grid-packages/ag-grid-docs/documentation/doc-pages/component-status-bar/index.md, after:

---
title: "Status Bar Panels (Components)"
enterprise: true
---

Status Bar Panels allow you to add your own components to the grid's Status Bar. Use this when the provided status bar components do not meet your requirements.

## Simple Status Bar Component

md-include:simple-status-bar-javascript.md
md-include:simple-status-bar-angular.md
md-include:simple-status-bar-react.md
md-include:simple-status-bar-vue.md

<grid-example title='Status Bar Panel' name='simple-component' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "statusbar", "range"] }'></grid-example>

md-include:component-interface-javascript.md
md-include:component-interface-angular.md
md-include:component-interface-react.md
md-include:component-interface-vue.md

## Status Panel Parameters

<interface-documentation interfaceName='IStatusPanelParams' ></interface-documentation>

## Configuring Status Bar Panels

In order to add new components to the Status Bar (or to configure the provided `agAggregationComponent` component) you need to provide the components and any associated information to `statusBar`:

md-include:configure-javascript.md
md-include:configure-angular.md
md-include:configure-react.md
md-include:configure-vue.md
  
In the configuration above we've specified a custom component (`statusBarComponent`) as well as the provided `agAggregationComponent` component.

Order is important here - the order of the components provided will determine the order in which they're rendered, from left to right.

<grid-example title='Status Bar Panel' name='custom-component' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "statusbar", "range"] }'></grid-example>

## Initialisation of Status Bar Components

The status bar components will be instantiated before the grid is fully initialised - specifically they will be initialised
before any row data has been rendered.

If you have a component that you wish to work on data once it's ready (calculate the sum of a column for example) then you'll
need to hook into the `modelUpdated` event. Remember to remove the event listener when the component is destroyed. 

md-include:init-javascript.md
md-include:init-angular.md
md-include:init-react.md
md-include:init-vue.md

## Accessing Status Bar Panel Instances

After the grid has created an instance of a status bar component it is possible to access that instance. This is useful if you want to call a method that you provide on the status bar component that has nothing to do with the operation of the grid. Accessing a status bar component is done using the grid API `getStatusPanel(key)`.

<api-documentation source='grid-api/api.json' section='accessories' names='["getStatusPanel"]'></api-documentation>

The example below shows using `getStatusPanel`:

<grid-example title='Get Status Bar Panel Instance' name='component-instance' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "statusbar", "range"] }'></grid-example>
