grid-packages/ag-grid-docs/documentation/doc-pages/group-cell-renderer/index.md, before:

---
title: "Group Cell Renderer"
---

If you are grouping in the grid, then you will need to provide a group cell renderer as the group cell renderer is what provides the user with the expand and collapse functionality.

The key for the group cell renderer is `agGroupCellRenderer`.

The grid's group cell renderer takes many parameters to configure it. Here is an example of a column and it's configuration:

<snippet>
const gridOptions = {
    columnDefs: [
        // column definition configured to show group values with the cell renderer set to 'group'
        {
            showRowGroup: true,
            cellRenderer:'agGroupCellRenderer',
            // provide extra params to the cellRenderer
            cellRendererParams: {
                // turn off the row count
                suppressCount: true,
                // turn off double click for expand
                suppressDoubleClickExpand: true,
                // enable checkbox selection
                checkbox: true,
                // provide an inner renderer
                innerRenderer: myInnerRenderer,
                // provide an inner renderer
                innerRendererParams: {foo: 'bar'},
                // provide a footer value getter
                footerValueGetter: myFooterValueGetter
            }
        }
    ]
}
</snippet>

The set of parameters for the group cell renderer are defined on `GroupCellRendererParams` and include:

<interface-documentation interfaceName='GroupCellRendererParams' overrideSrc='group-cell-renderer/group-cell-renderer.json' names='["checkbox","suppressCount","suppressPadding","suppressDoubleClickExpand","suppressEnterExpand","innerRenderer", "innerRendererParams","innerRendererSelector","footerValueGetter"]' ></interface-documentation>

## Example Group cellRenderer

Below shows an example of configuring a group cell renderer. The example setup is not realistic as it has many columns configured for showing the groups. The reason for this is to demonstrate different group column configurations side by side. In your application, you will typically have one column for showing the groups.

The example is built up as follows:

- The data is grouped by two columns: **Type** (one of 'Fiction' or 'Non-Fiction') and **Country** (a country name, eg Ireland or United Kingdom).

- The column **'Country Group - No Renderer'** configures the grid to put the 'Country' group data only into this column by setting `showRowGroup='country'`. All rows that are not this group are blank. There is no cell renderer configured, so the grid just places the text for the group into the cell, there is not expand / collapse functionality.

- The column **'All Groups - no Renderer'** builds on before, but adds all groups by setting `showRowGroup=true`. This gets the column to display all groups, but again no cell renderer so not expand / collapse functionality.

- The column **Group Renderer A** builds on before, but adds the group cell renderer with `cellRenderer='agGroupCellRenderer'`. The values are exactly as per the previous column, except now we have expand and collapse functionality.

- The column **Group Renderer B** builds on before, but adds `field=city` so that the city is displayed in the leave nodes in the group column.

- The column **Group Renderer C** builds on before, but adds the following `cellRendererParams`:

    - `suppressCount=true`: Suppresses the row count.
    - `suppressDoubleClickExpand=true`: Suppress double click for expanding.
    - `checkbox=true`: Adds a selection checkbox.
    - `innerRenderer=SimpleCellRenderer`: Puts custom rendering for displaying the value. The group cellRenderer will take care of all the expand / collapse, selection etc, but then allow you to customise the display of the value. In this example we add a border when the value is a group, and we set the colour based on whether the cell is a leaf node or not.

<grid-example title='Group Renderers' name='group-renderer' type='mixed' options='{"enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "rowgrouping"]}'></grid-example>

[[note]]
| If you require functionality that is not provided by the `agGroupCellRenderer`, you can use a [custom cell renderer](/component-cell-renderer/#custom-group-cell-renderer-example) to provide your own extended functionality.

## Removing the expand/collapse button in group rows

The expand/collapse button can be selectively shown/hidden by creating a custom `autoGroupColumnDef.cellRendererSelector` function in the Grid Options. To show the expand/collapse button, use the `agGroupCellRenderer` component renderer and to **not** show it, provide an empty cell renderer or use a [custom component renderer](/component-cell-renderer/).

An example of selectively showing the expand/collapse button group rows is shown below, where `autoGroupColumnDef.cellRendererSelector` is overridden to not show the expand/collapse button for `Australia` and `Norway`, by returning no renderer. The other rows use the `agGroupCellRenderer` cell renderer, which does show the expand/collapse button.

<grid-example title='Custom Expand/Collapse Cell' name='custom-expand-collapse-cell' type='mixed' options='{"enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "rowgrouping"]}'></grid-example>

Commit message:

AG-1255 - Update conditionally show group cell renderer docs

grid-packages/ag-grid-docs/documentation/doc-pages/group-cell-renderer/index.md, after:

---
title: "Group Cell Renderer"
---

If you are grouping in the grid, then you will need to provide a group cell renderer as the group cell renderer is what provides the user with the expand and collapse functionality.

The key for the group cell renderer is `agGroupCellRenderer`.

The grid's group cell renderer takes many parameters to configure it. Here is an example of a column and it's configuration:

<snippet>
const gridOptions = {
    columnDefs: [
        // column definition configured to show group values with the cell renderer set to 'group'
        {
            showRowGroup: true,
            cellRenderer:'agGroupCellRenderer',
            // provide extra params to the cellRenderer
            cellRendererParams: {
                // turn off the row count
                suppressCount: true,
                // turn off double click for expand
                suppressDoubleClickExpand: true,
                // enable checkbox selection
                checkbox: true,
                // provide an inner renderer
                innerRenderer: myInnerRenderer,
                // provide an inner renderer
                innerRendererParams: {foo: 'bar'},
                // provide a footer value getter
                footerValueGetter: myFooterValueGetter
            }
        }
    ]
}
</snippet>

The set of parameters for the group cell renderer are defined on `GroupCellRendererParams` and include:

<interface-documentation interfaceName='GroupCellRendererParams' overrideSrc='group-cell-renderer/group-cell-renderer.json' names='["checkbox","suppressCount","suppressPadding","suppressDoubleClickExpand","suppressEnterExpand","innerRenderer", "innerRendererParams","innerRendererSelector","footerValueGetter"]' ></interface-documentation>

## Example Group cellRenderer

Below shows an example of configuring a group cell renderer. The example setup is not realistic as it has many columns configured for showing the groups. The reason for this is to demonstrate different group column configurations side by side. In your application, you will typically have one column for showing the groups.

The example is built up as follows:

- The data is grouped by two columns: **Type** (one of 'Fiction' or 'Non-Fiction') and **Country** (a country name, eg Ireland or United Kingdom).

- The column **'Country Group - No Renderer'** configures the grid to put the 'Country' group data only into this column by setting `showRowGroup='country'`. All rows that are not this group are blank. There is no cell renderer configured, so the grid just places the text for the group into the cell, there is not expand / collapse functionality.

- The column **'All Groups - no Renderer'** builds on before, but adds all groups by setting `showRowGroup=true`. This gets the column to display all groups, but again no cell renderer so not expand / collapse functionality.

- The column **Group Renderer A** builds on before, but adds the group cell renderer with `cellRenderer='agGroupCellRenderer'`. The values are exactly as per the previous column, except now we have expand and collapse functionality.

- The column **Group Renderer B** builds on before, but adds `field=city` so that the city is displayed in the leave nodes in the group column.

- The column **Group Renderer C** builds on before, but adds the following `cellRendererParams`:

    - `suppressCount=true`: Suppresses the row count.
    - `suppressDoubleClickExpand=true`: Suppress double click for expanding.
    - `checkbox=true`: Adds a selection checkbox.
    - `innerRenderer=SimpleCellRenderer`: Puts custom rendering for displaying the value. The group cellRenderer will take care of all the expand / collapse, selection etc, but then allow you to customise the display of the value. In this example we add a border when the value is a group, and we set the colour based on whether the cell is a leaf node or not.

<grid-example title='Group Renderers' name='group-renderer' type='mixed' options='{"enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "rowgrouping"]}'></grid-example>

[[note]]
| If you require functionality that is not provided by the `agGroupCellRenderer`, you can use a [custom cell renderer](/component-cell-renderer/#custom-group-cell-renderer-example) to provide your own extended functionality.

## Conditionally Show Group Cell Renderer

The Expand / Collapse Chevron can be selectively shown / hidden by creating a custom `autoGroupColumnDef.cellRendererSelector` function in the Grid Options. To show the Expand / Collapse Chevron, use the `agGroupCellRenderer` component renderer and to **not** show it, provide an empty cell renderer or use a [custom component renderer](/component-cell-renderer/).

An example of selectively showing the Expand / Collapse Chevron group rows is shown below, where `autoGroupColumnDef.cellRendererSelector` is overridden to not show the Expand / Collapse Chevron for `Australia` and `Norway`, by returning no renderer. The other rows use the `agGroupCellRenderer` cell renderer, which does show the Expand / Collapse Chevron.

<grid-example title='Custom Expand/Collapse Cell' name='custom-expand-collapse-cell' type='mixed' options='{"enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "rowgrouping"]}'></grid-example>
