---
title: "Row Keys"
---

Row Keys (or Row ID's) are provided by the application to the grid to enable the grid to identify rows.

Once the grid can identify rows, it can then maintain state between changes of Row Data. Maintained State includes both the DOM (where a Row exists in the old and new list of Row Data, the row is kept inside the DOM) and Business State (e.g. Row Selection and Row Group Open / Closed).

The Row Key also allows accessing the grid's rows via the Grid API. For example if you decide to use `employeeId` as your Row Key, then you can look up rows inside the grid by providing `employeeId` to the `getRowNode(key)` API.

## Setting Row Keys

Setting Row Keys is done using the `getRowKey()` grid callback.

<snippet>
const gridOptions = {
    // assumes each data item provided by the application has the key stored in an attribute called id
    getRowKey: params => params.data.id
}
</snippet>

<interface-documentation interfaceName='GetRowKeyParams'></interface-documentation>

The example below has `getRowKey()` implemented to return `params.data.id`. When the grid is ready, the key `car-f` is used to look up a row from the grid's API and then select that Row.

<grid-example title='Get Row Key' name='get-row-key' type='generated' options=' { "modules": ["clientside"] }'></grid-example>

See [Accessing Data](/accessing-data/) for more information on `getRowNode(key)` API.

## Key Identity

When providing Keys the following rules must be obeyed:

1. Keys must be unique
1. Keys must not change

## Grid Assigned Keys

If `getRowKey()` is not provided, Row Keys are generated by the grid when data is set into the grid. The grid uses a sequence starting at 0 and incrementing by 1 to assign row IDs, so if for example there are three rows they will have IDs of `0`, `1` and `2`. The Row Key does not change for a Row once it is set.

If the Row Data is updated to a new set, the grid will continue with it's sequence. For example if 10 rows are initially set, keys [0..9] are used. Then if the data is set again for another 10 rows, keys [10..19] are used. This is true even if the second set of rows are logically identical to the first set of rows (i.e. it's a refresh operation).

## Client-Side Row Model - Group Keys

When using Client-Side Row Model [Row Grouping](/grouping/) the grid assigns keys to the row groups as the row groups are created. It uses 
another sequence again starting at 0 and incrementing by 1 and also prefixes the sequence number with `row-group-`. 
So if for example there are three groups they will have keys of `row-group-0`, `row-group-1` and `row-group-2`. If the 
groups are destroyed (eg the user removes the grouping) and recreated again (the user groups by a column) then new keys's 
will be created e.g. `row-group-3`, `row-group-4` and `row-group-5`. As with normal rows, the keys's for group rows do 
not change for as long as the row group exists, however removing and re-adding the grouping will result in new row 
group keys even if the row group represents the same group as before.

The grid will always assign keys for group levels. The callback `getRowKey()` is not used for groups.

## Server-Side Row Model - Group Keys

When using the Server-Side Row Model and [Row Grouping](/server-side-model-grouping/), the grid will issue keys for each level using a sequence starting at zero. For the top level, the sequence will be `0`, `1`, `2`. For Rows inside Groups, the Group Name will be used to prefix the sequence e.g. `Ireland-0`, `Ireland-1`, `Ireland-2` for Rows under Ireland. When there are multiple levels of Row Grouping, then the Rows will use the names for all parent groups, e.g. `Ireland-Swimming-0`, `Ireland-Swimming-1`, `Ireland-Swimming-2`. This ensures all Row Keys are unique, even across groups.

If implementing `getRowKey()` in the Server-Side Row Model, then you may wish to use the `parentGroups` and `level` attributes of the provided params to the callback. Depending on your application, you may use these details to build your own Keys including the parent Row Group names.
