grid-packages/ag-grid-docs/documentation/doc-pages/component-types/index.md, before:

---
title: "Component Types"
---

The full list of component types you can provide in AG Grid are as follows:

- [Cell Renderer](/component-cell-renderer/): To customise the contents of a cell.
- [Cell Editor](/component-cell-editor/): To customise the editing of a cell.
- [Date Component](/component-date/): To customise the date selection component in the date filter.
- [Filter Component](/component-filter/): For custom column filter that appears inside the column menu.
- [Floating Filter](/component-floating-filter/): For custom column floating filter that appears inside the column menu.
- [Header Component](/component-header/): To customise the header of a column and column groups.
- [Loading Cell Renderer](/component-loading-cell-renderer/): To customise the loading cell row when using Server Side row model.
- [Overlay Component](/component-overlay/): To customise loading and no rows overlay components.
- [Status Bar Component](/component-status-bar/): For custom status bar components.
- [Tool Panel Component](/component-tool-panel/): For custom tool panel components.
- [Tooltip Component](/component-tooltip/): For custom cell tooltip components.

Commit message:

RTI-1007 Add Angular video and put vids on comp types page too

grid-packages/ag-grid-docs/documentation/doc-pages/component-types/index.md, after:

---
title: "Component Types"
---

[[only-javascript]]
|You can create your own custom components to customise the behaviour of the grid. For example you can customise how cells are rendered, how values are edited and also create your own filters.

[[only-vue]]
|You can create your own custom components to customise the behaviour of the grid. For example you can customise how cells are rendered, how values are edited and also create your own filters.

[[only-react]]
|<video-section id="eglfpHRpcu0" title="React Custom Components" header="true">
|You can create your own custom components to customise the behaviour of the grid. For example you can customise how cells are rendered, how values are edited and also create your own filters.
|</video-section>

[[only-angular]]
|<video-section id="A5-Li_9oPSE" title="Angular Custom Components" header="true">
|You can create your own custom components to customise the behaviour of the grid. For example you can customise how cells are rendered, how values are edited and also create your own filters.
|</video-section>

The full list of component types you can provide in AG Grid are as follows:

- [Cell Renderer](/component-cell-renderer/): To customise the contents of a cell.
- [Cell Editor](/component-cell-editor/): To customise the editing of a cell.
- [Date Component](/component-date/): To customise the date selection component in the date filter.
- [Filter Component](/component-filter/): For custom column filter that appears inside the column menu.
- [Floating Filter](/component-floating-filter/): For custom column floating filter that appears inside the column menu.
- [Header Component](/component-header/): To customise the header of a column and column groups.
- [Loading Cell Renderer](/component-loading-cell-renderer/): To customise the loading cell row when using Server Side row model.
- [Overlay Component](/component-overlay/): To customise loading and no rows overlay components.
- [Status Bar Component](/component-status-bar/): For custom status bar components.
- [Tool Panel Component](/component-tool-panel/): For custom tool panel components.
- [Tooltip Component](/component-tooltip/): For custom cell tooltip components.
