---
title: "Row Grouping - Group Customisation"
enterprise: true
---

## Configuring the Auto Group Column

You can specify your own configuration used by the auto group columns by providing a `gridOptions.autoGroupColumnDef`. This can be used to override any property as defined in the [Columns](/column-definitions/)
documentation page.

The auto columns generated by the grid use the AG Grid provided group cell renderer. This means that `gridOptions.autoGroupColumnDef` can also be used to pass additional properties to further customise how your groups are displayed.

Check the [cell rendering docs](/cell-rendering/) to see all the available parameters available to configure the group cell renderer.

The following example illustrates how you can configure the auto group columns. Note that:

- For the purpose of simplification this example uses one Auto Row Group Column. If you were to use Multi Auto Group Column the configuration would be applied to all the generated columns

- The header name of the group column is changed by setting in `autoGroupColumnDef.headerName = 'CUSTOM!'`

- The count for each group is removed by setting `autoGroupColumnDef.cellRendererParams.suppressCount = true`

- Each group has a select box by setting `autoGroupColumnDef.cellRendererParams.checkbox = true`

- The group column has a custom comparator that changes the way sorting works, this is achieved by setting `autoGroupColumnDef.comparator = function (left, right){...}`. <br/>The custom comparator provided in the example changes the way the sorting works by ignoring the first letter of the group. To test this click on the header. When sorting desc you should see countries which second letter goes from Z..A, asc should show countries which second letter goes A..Z

<grid-example title='Configuring the Auto Group Column' name='configuring-auto-group-column' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "exampleHeight": 515, "modules": ["clientside", "rowgrouping"] }'></grid-example>

## Group Cell Rendering

If you use the default group cell renderer provided by ag-grid, there are many parameters that can be passed to configure its behaviour, they are all explained in the [Group Cell Renderer](/group-cell-renderer/) documentation. Please have a look at this docs if you are interested in finding our how to change the contents that are displayed in each grouped cell.

You can also configure the look &amp; feel of the expand/contract buttons by [specifying your own custom icons](/custom-icons/).
