grid-packages/ag-grid-docs/documentation/doc-pages/excel-export-customising-content/index.md, before:

---
title: "Excel Export - Customising Content"
enterprise: true
---

## Customising Cell and Row Group values

The grid cell and row group values exported to Excel can be customised using the following function params for a call to `exportDataAsExcel` API method or in the `defaultExcelExportParams`.

<snippet>
gridApi.exportDataAsExcel({
    processCellCallback(params) {
        const value = params.value
        return value === undefined ? '' : `_${value}_`
    },
    processRowGroupCallback(params) {
        return `row group: ${params.node.key}`
    }
})
</snippet>

<interface-documentation
    interfaceName='ExcelExportParams'
    names='["processRowGroupCallback", "processCellCallback"]'
    config='{"description":"See below the functions on the `ExcelExportParams` interface to customise exported grid cell and row group values."}'>
</interface-documentation>

The following example shows Excel customisations where the exported document has the following:

* All row groups with the prefix `row group: `
* All cell values surrounded by `_`, unless they are `undefined`, in which case they are empty

[[note]]
| Row group column cells are also cells. This means that each row group column cell will first have the `processRowGroupCallback` invoked for it, and then the returned value will have `processCellCallback` invoked for it. This is why exported row group cell values will have the `_` surrounding the value, which is applied by the `processCellCallback`.

<grid-example title='Excel Export - Customising Row Groups' name='excel-export-customising-row-groups' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "rowgrouping", "csv", "excel", "menu", "setfilter"]}'></grid-example>

## Customising Column Headers and Group Header Values

The column headers and group headers exported to Excel can be customised using the following function params for a call to `exportDataAsExcel` API method or in the `defaultExcelExportParams`.

<snippet>
gridApi.exportDataAsExcel({
    processGroupHeaderCallback(params) {
        return `group header: ${params.columnApi.getDisplayNameForColumnGroup(params.columnGroup, null)}`
    },
    processHeaderCallback(params) {
        return `header: ${params.columnApi.getDisplayNameForColumn(params.column, null)}`
    }
})
</snippet>

<interface-documentation
    interfaceName='ExcelExportParams'
    names='["processGroupHeaderCallback", "processHeaderCallback"]'
    config='{"description":"See below the functions on the `ExcelExportParams` interface to customise exported column group headers and headers."}'>
</interface-documentation>

The following example shows Excel customisations where the exported document has the following:

* Group headers with the prefix `group header: `
* Headers with the prefix `header: `

<grid-example title='Excel Export - Customising Column Group Headers' name='excel-export-customising-column-group-headers' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "rowgrouping", "csv", "excel", "menu", "setfilter"]}'></grid-example>

## Next Up

Continue to the next section: [Images](../excel-export-images/).

Commit message:

AG-6938 - Add info to excel export docs for hiding open parents

grid-packages/ag-grid-docs/documentation/doc-pages/excel-export-customising-content/index.md, after:

---
title: "Excel Export - Customising Content"
enterprise: true
---

## Customising Cell and Row Group values

The grid cell and row group values exported to Excel can be customised using the following function params for a call to `exportDataAsExcel` API method or in the `defaultExcelExportParams`.

<snippet>
gridApi.exportDataAsExcel({
    processCellCallback(params) {
        const value = params.value
        return value === undefined ? '' : `_${value}_`
    },
    processRowGroupCallback(params) {
        return `row group: ${params.node.key}`
    }
})
</snippet>

<interface-documentation
    interfaceName='ExcelExportParams'
    names='["processRowGroupCallback", "processCellCallback"]'
    config='{"description":"See below the functions on the `ExcelExportParams` interface to customise exported grid cell and row group values."}'>
</interface-documentation>

The following example shows Excel customisations where the exported document has the following:

* All row groups with the prefix `row group: `
* All cell values surrounded by `_`, unless they are `undefined`, in which case they are empty

[[note]]
| Row group column cells are also cells. This means that each row group column cell will first have the `processRowGroupCallback` invoked for it, and then the returned value will have `processCellCallback` invoked for it. This is why exported row group cell values will have the `_` surrounding the value, which is applied by the `processCellCallback`.

[[note]]
| When using row grouping while [hiding open parents](/grouping-multiple-group-columns/#hide-open-parents) (`groupHideOpenParents=true`), export to Excel doesn't export the group rows as collapsible groups in Excel. Instead, all exported rows are on the same level and cannot be expanded/collapsed in Excel.

<grid-example title='Excel Export - Customising Row Groups' name='excel-export-customising-row-groups' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "rowgrouping", "csv", "excel", "menu", "setfilter"]}'></grid-example>

## Customising Column Headers and Group Header Values

The column headers and group headers exported to Excel can be customised using the following function params for a call to `exportDataAsExcel` API method or in the `defaultExcelExportParams`.

<snippet>
gridApi.exportDataAsExcel({
    processGroupHeaderCallback(params) {
        return `group header: ${params.columnApi.getDisplayNameForColumnGroup(params.columnGroup, null)}`
    },
    processHeaderCallback(params) {
        return `header: ${params.columnApi.getDisplayNameForColumn(params.column, null)}`
    }
})
</snippet>

<interface-documentation
    interfaceName='ExcelExportParams'
    names='["processGroupHeaderCallback", "processHeaderCallback"]'
    config='{"description":"See below the functions on the `ExcelExportParams` interface to customise exported column group headers and headers."}'>
</interface-documentation>

The following example shows Excel customisations where the exported document has the following:

* Group headers with the prefix `group header: `
* Headers with the prefix `header: `

<grid-example title='Excel Export - Customising Column Group Headers' name='excel-export-customising-column-group-headers' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "modules": ["clientside", "rowgrouping", "csv", "excel", "menu", "setfilter"]}'></grid-example>

## Next Up

Continue to the next section: [Images](../excel-export-images/).
