grid-packages/ag-grid-docs/documentation/doc-pages/aggregation/index.md, before:

---
title: "Aggregation"
enterprise: true
---

When [Row Grouping](/grouping/), aggregation functions can be applied to any column to populate the group row with values.

## Enabling Aggregation

The simplest way to enable aggregations is with the built-in aggregation functions; `sum`, `min`, `max`, `count`, `avg`, `first`, `last`. 

The following snippet shows how these agg functions can be applied to columns via `colDef.aggFunc`:

<snippet>
const gridOptions = {
    columnDefs: [
        { field: 'country', rowGroup: true, hide: true },
        { field: 'year', rowGroup: true, hide: true }, 
        { field: 'gold', aggFunc: 'sum' },
        { field: 'silver', aggFunc: 'max' },
        { field: 'bronze', aggFunc: 'avg' },
    ],
}
</snippet>

The example below uses the same built-in aggregation functions shown in the snippet above. Note the following:

- Rows are grouped by the **Country** and **Year** columns by enabling the `rowGroup` column definition property.

- The **Gold**, **Silver** and **Bronze** value columns have different agg functions applied via `colDef.aggFunc`.

<grid-example title='Enabling Aggregation' name='enabling-aggregation' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "exampleHeight": 540, "modules": ["clientside", "rowgrouping", "menu", "columnpanel", "filterpanel", "setfilter"] }'></grid-example>

[[note]]
| The built-in functions will support `bigint` values if you have them in your data, but the `avg`
| function will lose precision as it can only use integer arithmetic if `bigint` is used.

## Customisations

The previous example demonstrated how the built-in agg functions can be used, however extensive Aggregation customisations
are also possible as summarised below:

- **[Custom Functions](/aggregation-custom-functions/)** - provide custom aggregations to the grid.
- **[Aggregation Filtering](/aggregation-filtering/)** - configure and customise how aggregations are filtered.

## API Reference

Aggregations can be configured using the following column property:

<api-documentation source='column-properties/properties.json' section='grouping' names='["aggFunc"]'></api-documentation>

Aggregation functions can be registered with the grid using the following grid option:

<api-documentation source='grid-options/properties.json' section='rowPivoting' names='["aggFuncs"]'></api-documentation>

## Next Up

Continue to the next section to learn about [Custom Functions](/aggregation-custom-functions/).

Commit message:

RTI-1315 - move suppress agg at root level docs

grid-packages/ag-grid-docs/documentation/doc-pages/aggregation/index.md, after:

---
title: "Aggregation"
enterprise: true
---

When [Row Grouping](/grouping/), aggregation functions can be applied to any column to populate the group row with values.

## Enabling Aggregation

The simplest way to enable aggregations is with the built-in aggregation functions; `sum`, `min`, `max`, `count`, `avg`, `first`, `last`. 

The following snippet shows how these agg functions can be applied to columns via `colDef.aggFunc`:

<snippet>
const gridOptions = {
    columnDefs: [
        { field: 'country', rowGroup: true, hide: true },
        { field: 'year', rowGroup: true, hide: true }, 
        { field: 'gold', aggFunc: 'sum' },
        { field: 'silver', aggFunc: 'max' },
        { field: 'bronze', aggFunc: 'avg' },
    ],
}
</snippet>

The example below uses the same built-in aggregation functions shown in the snippet above. Note the following:

- Rows are grouped by the **Country** and **Year** columns by enabling the `rowGroup` column definition property.

- The **Gold**, **Silver** and **Bronze** value columns have different agg functions applied via `colDef.aggFunc`.

<grid-example title='Enabling Aggregation' name='enabling-aggregation' type='generated' options='{ "enterprise": true, "exampleHeight": 540, "modules": ["clientside", "rowgrouping", "menu", "columnpanel", "filterpanel", "setfilter"] }'></grid-example>

[[note]]
| The built-in functions will support `bigint` values if you have them in your data, but the `avg`
| function will lose precision as it can only use integer arithmetic if `bigint` is used.

## Customisations

The previous example demonstrated how the built-in agg functions can be used, however extensive Aggregation customisations
are also possible as summarised below:

- **[Custom Functions](/aggregation-custom-functions/)** - provide custom aggregations to the grid.
- **[Aggregation Filtering](/aggregation-filtering/)** - configure and customise how aggregations are filtered.

## Suppressing Top Level Aggregations

When aggregations are present, the grid also aggregates all the top level rows into one parent row. This total aggregation is not shown in the grid so a speed increase can be produced by turning this top level aggregation off by setting `suppressAggAtRootLevel=true`. It is the intention that a future release of the grid will allow exposing the top level aggregation hence why this feature is left in.

## API Reference

Aggregations can be configured using the following column property:

<api-documentation source='column-properties/properties.json' section='grouping' names='["aggFunc"]'></api-documentation>

Aggregation functions can be registered with the grid using the following grid option:

<api-documentation source='grid-options/properties.json' section='rowPivoting' names='["aggFuncs"]'></api-documentation>

## Next Up

Continue to the next section to learn about [Custom Functions](/aggregation-custom-functions/).
